So once this is in my repository,
once I've pushed it, or
once I've saved it in the GitHub UI, so
it's already live in my GitHub site,
then whenever I push code, I'm gonna
start to see little icons pop up.
And if I go into my Actions page,
I can see, hopefully, an action running.
And if anybody is not
seeing this let us know.
So in our configuration,
we have these instructions, right?
All of these different steps
that it's telling GitHub to do.
And that is what we can then see
actually happening when we look at,
let's look at a successful one first.
A particular job, it's gonna have either
a happy green check or a sad red X.
And if I look at the logs here, and
it might be yellow if it's still running,
I can see exactly what's happening.
I can see the logs, and I can go down
all kinds of rabbit holes about all
of the underlying cloud computing that's
happening here, and so on and so forth.
So, for example, what it's doing is
it's checking out my repository,
making sure it has the latest
version of the code.
It's setting up Node,
it's making sure it has Node.
It's installing my
dependencies with npm Install.
So the same as we would do if we were
trying to run this project after cloning
it from some other cool developer
who posted the link on Twitter or
whatever, and so on and so forth.
And then it is eventually getting
to our npm run build command,
so again,
the same thing that we were doing locally.
Then it's doing a whole bunch of stuff
about pages that all comes from that
built-in pages action
that GitHub provides.
So anyway,
this is all doing a whole bunch of stuff.
it's doing some cleanup work at
the end that we don't really, again,
rabbit holes we can all go down.
And then it's like, yep, I did it,
I completed the job, and
then I get my nice little green check,
which just feels so
good to see when you have a little green
check there on your latest connect.
And sometimes you'll notice that,
in projects that do the good thing of
having a readme, which all projects
should have, unlike this one,
you will sometimes even see little
badges that tell you about different,
is the package built, is the build
passing, and so on and so forth.
So there's all kinds of fanciness
you can kind of do on top of this.
But this is kind of magic because
what's happening right now is basically
now every time I push or whatever
other thing I configured my job to do,
GitHub is auto-magically
kicking off all this work for
me to spin up a little computer
somewhere that's running through
all these commands and
getting my site live on the interwebs.
[SOUND] Lift off.
And because I want to show you also,
deliberately,
what it looks like [LAUGH] when
a build does not succeed, for
example, or when it when a job
does not succeed, rather.
When you have a failing job, and
you're like, why did that job fail?
You can click into the job, in this case,
we just have this one deploy job.
Complex projects might have many and
might be sort of like,
first do this and then do that,
then do the other thing.
But in this case,
we can see which steps passed, okay?
It got the code, it installed
the dependencies, but the build failed.
And then I can look at the logs and
see what the problem is and
perhaps it's the same problem
that we saw yesterday about
the top-level await is not
available in some of your targets.
And again, that's because
these are the browsers that,
by default, Vite is targeting when
it does the production build.
But in the dev server,
it's targeting newer browsers,
because it assumes that if you're
developing the site actively,
you have a more recent version.
And so some of these are below
the version of Firefox or Chrome or
Edge or what have you,
that supports top level of weight.
So that is, again,
like same problem that we saw locally but
this is the same problem that this
cloud somewhere that's running
this code encounters when
it tries to run this job.
So this is legit actually to show
you that when something goes wrong,
and I can assure you it
will at some point [LAUGH].
The interface here, if you're not like,
for example, if you're running this
locally every time, cool, but
once you've got this auto-magicness,
you're probably not going to be doing that
all the time because you've got like,
yeah, I already know,
I've got commands to lint things.
I've got commands to make sure the build
passes and the format is correct and
all that stuff, and so
this is how we can check out what
is going wrong when we need to.